look into charge sound not playing after the first time? this also affects kirby's jump sound
look into wagon star motor sound sounding weird
look into sound cutting out for ambient volcano noises

BUG: sound effects played on frame 0 (notably the one when spawning the first machine 0x3000b)
    get removed when resimulating frame 0? apparently the "this_frame" variable is set to 1?

ok, it seems rollbacks are not allocating the same sg's for audio emitters. i believe the function
80443d8c is checking for any active fgm instances with the sg it tries to allocate, and if its in use,
(which it is because a previous sim of that frame grabbed it) it allocates the next one.

todo: handle the case where an sg is stolen from another emitter @ 8005d770.

im thinking i snapshot the state of all sg's at the top of the frame, before receiving inputs
and simulating any game frames.

im back to wanting to decouple audio entirely, including the emitter data. im blocking the duplicate creation
and termination of sound effects with injected game code. im noticing that sounds arent actually stopping when
i request them to stop though.

currently, i am not backing up any audio data INCLUDING the emitter struct which includes information about
which tracks and sg's are available. this actually works amazingly from a sound perspective. i believe there
is an issue where tracks are being allocated on prediction frames but not being freed when rolling back. i
tried to include the audio source table in the savestate but it causes many sounds to not play, likely because
tracks are being reallocated while an instance exists referencing them? not sure tbh but i think im getting
close.

the random text obj crash in HSD_ObjAlloc is because i have an HSD_Obj in hoshi that isnt being backed up.

seems many of the desyncs were related to the replay determinism fixes being disabled, makes sense i guess.
that being said i did see a spawn position difference in round 2 of high jump, not sure how thats
determined, i should look into that.

getting off a machine and highlighting the machine emitter shows the ig and sg as unchanged and shows item drop coming from it?




solutions i've tried:

1.  
    - backup audio_3d_data
    - record all sound effect events the first time they play and suppress duplicate plays.
    - record all emitter allocations and replay them on rollback (emitter alloc checks if active sounds are using its sg/ig)
    - record all sg -> emitter assignements and replay them on rollback (sg assignment checks if active sounds are using it)
    - record all track allocation (finnicky, not enough data to record this reliably, we dont know who is requesting it)
        pros:
            - 


new idea:
    - lets plan around worst real case, which is predict 5 frames, rollback 5, simulate 6.
    - lets make all audio allocations deterministic. this means hashing emitter, sg, and track assignments. 
    - log sfx play events on prediction frames and reference them when resimulating to prevent duplicate sounds. 
        if a sound is detected as already having played, use that fgm instance and mark it as being re-used. 
        the track and sg should associated with the fgm instance should still be valid because of 
        emitter sg and track determinism.
    - AFTER rolling back and resimulating our confirm frames, perform a pass on the sfx play log,
        look for sounds that were not re-used + still playing and stop them. this should prevent any stale references
        to tracks and sg in the fgm instance?

lets have a rollback init command sent by the game
    - init the savesates
    - raise a flag to perform rollback logic in dolphin
    - have the game send a list of memory regions to preserve. 

inversely a rollback end command
    - frees all savestates
    - lowers rollback logic flag

running pretty good! looks like something broke when switching over to backing
up all mods minus the audio and debug pad data. inputs are not stable, i should
properly implement input handling in dolphin next

the audio bug is caused by MP emitters using the same sg/ig as the riders star.
not sure how to forcefully trigger this yet but after moving near the volcano/city
overlap area, my engine sound cut out and when checking the log, emitter #2 is using
my machines sg and emitter #4 is using my machines ig. i also have noticed that the emitter
ive been following this whole time (index 43) has been replaced with an item. my machines
emitter has seemingly moved to index 52. not sure when or why this happened. 
i never got off the machine.

2 issues ive observed, 
    1. multiple emitters share a sg value. this causes the higher emitter id to have priority 
    over placing the sounds on the map. i think because when the later
    emitters are updated, they try to queue a volume/pan change but it skips 
    doing so because an operation is already queued on that sound (from the 
    earlier emitter)
    2. the sound just doesnt play even though observing the table doesnt show a stc_bgm_curLoadingHpsChunkHeaderIndex
    sg or ig value with another emitter. i think this one happens when i develop mode pause with
    rollbacks runnings

do i need to preserve that weird array of volumes that gets written to when a sounds volume changes?? do i already do this?

im noticing if the emitter's volume is not changed from the last update's value,
it doesnt adjust the voice volume. the volume of the emitter doesnt 
usually change because its on the machine, so maybe something is modifying the
voice's volume and it never gets corrected by its own emitter? yeah just forced the emitter
to update the voice regardless and it was set to 0.25 and was updated to 1.0.

ok, lets look into this array tomorrow. try to figure out whats adjusting it


what i think is happening

1. kirby passes a wheel powerup, main machine destroyed, wheel machine created
2. next item that spawns garbage collects the main machines audio emitter, and nulls its sg (ig is still playing the item pickup sound), and uses it for the item
3. rollback occurs, restores, restores the machines sg (which is now playing an item sound). we emulate the garbage collection but ofc diff outcome because the machines sg now has an item sound playing, so it doesnt get garbage collected. the item sg assignment gets replayed and now the old machine emitter AND the item share a sg


prediction frame:
    - log all sound effects played
rollback correction:
    - check if we played the sound already and if so, find its instance and update it to use the request track and sg?


BUG ALERT:
SFX: played sfx 0003000B for sg (5) with instance 00002D15 on frame 0
SFX: played sfx 00030021 for sg (5) with instance 00002E16 on frame 0
SFX: stopped sfx with instance 00002E16 on frame 0
SFX: skipping PLAY 00030021 on frame 0. matches instance 00002E16 from frame 0

^ instance 00002E16 should have been played again because it was stopped, i guess i should check for this

idea: hash callstack to more accurately ID sounds? idk

backup all of axlive?

what is 0x98 of r13?? related to volume changes @ 80449cc0


come back 8044aa00, its reading the sg from the VPB and updating a volume array
